The National Green Tribunal1 (NGT) on Thursday granted Vedanta1 Limited access to its administrative1 section of the Sterlite1 Copper plant in Tuticorin . However, the green panel1 said that production process2 will continue to remain shut . A bench headed by NGT1 Chairperson, Adarsh Kumar Goel further directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board1 (TNPCB) to submit analysis on baseline pollution data of SIPCOT industrial area1 . The green panel1 was hearing a plea moved by Vedanta1, where the mining major had challenged the state governments order of closure of the copper plant Also Read The Hindu explains: Sterlite1 protests The tribunal1 also rejected the state governments submission challenging the maintainability of Vedanta1 plea  . Following major protests against the operation of the plant, in May this year, the State government had issued closure order against Sterlite1  .  The National Green Tribunal2 (NGT) on Thursday granted Vedanta2 Limited access to its administrative2 section of the Sterlite2 Copper2 plant in Tuticorin . However, the green panel2 said that production process2 will continue to remain shut . A bench headed by NGT2 Chairperson, Adarsh Kumar Goel further directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board2 (TNPCB) to submit analysis on baseline pollution data of SIPCOT industrial area2 . The green panel2 was hearing a plea moved by Vedanta2, where the mining major had challenged the state governments order of closure of the copper plant Also Read The Hindu explains: Sterlite2 protests The tribunal2 also rejected the state governments submission challenging the maintainability of Vedanta2 plea . Following major protests against the operation of the plant, in May this year, the State government had issued closure order against Sterlite2 .  The National Green Tribunal3 (NGT) on Thursday granted Vedanta3 Limited3 access to its administrative3 section of the Sterlite3 Copper3 plant in Tuticorin . However, the green panel3 said that production process3 will continue to remain shut . A bench headed by NGT3 Chairperson, Adarsh Kumar Goel further directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board3 (TNPCB) to submit analysis on baseline pollution data of SIPCOT industrial area3 . The green panel3 was hearing a plea moved by Vedanta3, where the mining major had challenged the state governments order of closure of the copper plant Also Read The Hindu explains: Sterlite3 protests The tribunal3 also rejected the state governments submission challenging the maintainability of Vedanta3 plea . Following major protests against the operation of the plant, in May this year, the State government had issued closure order against Sterlite3 .  The National Green Tribunal4 (NGT) on Thursday granted Vedanta4 Limited4 access to its administrative4 section of the Sterlite4 Copper4 plant in Tuticorin . However, the green panel4 said that production process4 will continue to remain shut . A bench headed by NGT4 Chairperson, Adarsh Kumar Goel further directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board4 (TNPCB) to submit analysis on baseline pollution data of SIPCOT industrial area4 . The green panel4 was hearing a plea moved by Vedanta4, where the mining major had challenged the state governments order of closure of the copper plant Also Read The Hindu explains: Sterlite4 protests The tribunal4 also rejected the state governments submission challenging the maintainability of Vedanta4 plea . Following major protests against the operation of the plant, in May this year, the State government had issued closure order against Sterlite4 .
