1. Find (distinct) titles of all movies in the "Drama" genre with a maximum rating greater
than or equal to the maximum rating of all "Quentin Tarantino" movies.  
Use the tag field to find Quentin Tarantino movies by looking for tags containing the string
Quentin Tarantino (make sure to ignore case using ilike or the upper() function of PostgreSQL. 
Note also that genres is a string of genres separated by |, e.g. 'Comedy|Drama', and here too
you should ignore case. These instructions apply to all questions.

2. Find the userids of all the users who have given ratings to all of the movies having genre
Comedy and movieid <= 3. You can assume that a user gives at most one rating for any movie.

3. For each rating level, count the number of users who have given that rating to the movie
'City Hall (1996)'. Ensure the count is 0 if no one gave that rating.
Assume that the possible ratings are from 0 to 5 in steps of 0.5, which can be generated by
using: 
    generate_series(0.0, 5.0, 0.5) as ratings_master(rating)
in a from clause. The set-valued function generate_series is postgresql specific and may not
work in other databases, but can be implemented using recursive queries which will be covered
later.

4. The genre field of movies is a string value field with multiple values. Convert it to a
normalized value. Your output schema should be    
    movieid, title, genre
Replacing genres by genre, and given a tuple like (id1, 'foo', 'Comedy|Drama'), the output
would have two tuples:
    (id1, 'foo', 'Comedy')
    (id1, 'foo', 'Drama')
by using a combination of the functions string_to_array(string, delimiter) and unnest(array)
which returns a set of value from the array. The result of unnest is a relation which you
should use in the from clause e.g. FROM r, unnest(..) as s(a).

5. Use the previous query in a WITH clause to get the normalized version of movies. Using that,
count the total number of distinct movie from each genre.

6. Find id and title of all movies with genre Children that have average ratings greater than
average ratings of movies with genre Comedy. For the latter take average directly, instead of
first finding average per movie and then taking that average.